[AUDIO LOGO]
[THEME MUSIC]
>> REGINA MEREDITH:
You're definitely the most
interesting, trippy
person I have ever met.
It's as though you
live beyond the veil.
>> MAREN MUTER: Removing our
connection with the natural
world, we have turned
ourselves into things.
And we're sadder,
because we're removing
the observation
of life and making
it the observation of me.
No matter how old we are, we
are such a beautiful child
that is learning and
doing the very best they
can to get through this life.
A lot of people think I'm going
to raise my vibrational level
so I can get here.
I'm going to do this.
But what you're
actually looking for
is harmony, because on the
other side of the veil, that
is what it is.
If I get too far
from the hum, if I
didn't have that
connection, I think
I would feel completely lost.
>> REGINA: I think so too.
And most people do
feel completely lost.
>> MUTER: Yeah.
>> REGINA: When I first brought
Maren Muter on "Open Minds,"
we spoke about the letters
she wrote beginning at the age
of five to a woman she referred
to as the "Flower Lady."
Their conversations were
deep, even prophetic.
And today, we're going to dive
into the adult understanding
of what she was
saying as a child.
Because now we
have science that's
backed all this
stuff up, all these
works on quantum
theory and things
that you were already seeing.
You were already seeing
the nature of dimensions
when you were a little kid.
>> MUTER: Yeah.
>> REGINA: So I mean,
you're definitely the most
interesting, trippy person
I have ever met in the depth
of your understanding.
It's as though you
live somewhere between.
It's though you live
beyond the veil almost.
And I know I said this
last time, but it's true.
And it's very rare that
people will ever meet someone
or encounter someone like you.
So I just wanted
to say, welcome,
and I'm so glad to be
in your presence again.
>> MUTER: Well,
thank you very much.
And I do want to say
something quickly.
I have a couple of
people that have
asked me to extend you a
hello and say thank you
for everything that you do.
And they really enjoy your show.
>> REGINA: Thank you.
>> MUTER: So I wanted
to extend that to you.
>> REGINA: I appreciate that.
Well received.
>> MUTER: Good.
[LAUGHS]
>> REGINA: I've received it.
So today, we're going to
be going back and touching
on some of the letters you
wrote because they're profound.
And we're going to start
with one called "Mirrors."
>> MUTER: Yes.
>> REGINA: And so I've let you
know we're going to do that.
And it's so wonderful.
I'm seeing the real letters
that you stuffed in the jars
all those years ago.
>> MUTER: Yeah, so this is the
real letter of the "Mirrors."
>> REGINA: "Dear, Flower Lady.
I think there's a reason
we cannot see our own faces
without a mirror.
I believe we're not
meant for us to focus
on ourselves superficially.
And we're going to--" And you
said, superficially, F-I-S-H.
But you were what, like, seven?
>> MUTER: Yeah.
>> REGINA: Super-fish-ially.
[LAUGHS]
>> MUTER: Exactly.
Yeah, you might want to--
[LAUGHTER]
>> REGINA: But let's
talk about that.
I think the thing about
focusing on ourselves
has a lot of baggage around it.
And you're saying that
we're not supposed to--
in this letter-- I
don't think we're
supposed to just be
focused on ourselves
at the center of our
lives, superficially
being the key word there.
>> MUTER: Yes.
>> REGINA: So let's talk about
it because through the last 40
years of new age kind
of doctrine and such,
you need to be at the
center of your life.
You are the center of your life.
Well, we are.
It's our experience.
>> MUTER: Yeah.
>> REGINA: But that's different
than being always self-focused.
>> MUTER: Correct.
>> REGINA: So let's talk about
that and see what you really
mean by that.
>> MUTER: Yes.
So in the letter, I was
making observations.
And a lot of the letters that
I wrote were observations.
And I came to the
conclusion that observation
was key to our
existence here on Earth.
And it's very hard to observe
our connection with nature
when we're staring at
ourselves in the mirror.
When we walk into
a room and we're
worried about how we look.
>> REGINA: It is.
>> MUTER: And we are comparing
ourselves to other people.
>> REGINA: That's called
self-consciousness,
which isn't really
very conscious.
>> MUTER: So self-consciousness
is a little different,
or a lot different, than putting
yourself first or putting
yourself at the
center of your life.
And if we look at what does
it mean to put yourself
at the center of
your life, it doesn't
mean that you are supposed
to do everything for yourself
and make yourself the center
of attention of your life.
We look at your life and that
you are the common denominator
in everything around you.
That's what it means
to be the center
or the center of
your own life is
you are the common denominator.
So if I'm here with
you right now, for me,
the common denominator
in my life is me.
And you are you.
And I leave this room, my
common denominator in that area
is me again.
>> REGINA: It's still your
observations and perceptions
of reality.
>> MUTER: It's your observations
and perceptions of reality.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
>> MUTER: So it's very--
when we come back to this
letter, and we look at it,
and we say when people
fuss about their hair,
they apologize
for how they look.
So they're apologizing
for themselves.
And there's no need to ever
apologize for who you are.
They worry about their clothes
and they become a thing.
And more and more,
over the last few--
>> REGINA: So it's like
you're objectifying yourself.
>> MUTER: You're
objectifying yourself.
And over the last few
decades, we've really
had this movement where we
need to focus on the self,
we need to put ourself first.
And removing our connection
with the natural world,
we have turned
ourselves into things.
And we're sadder, and
we're not as happy,
and our lives
aren't as fulfilled,
because we're removing
the observation of life
and making it the
observation of me, [LAUGHS]
rather than the connection.
>> REGINA: Absolutely.
And I just think of the culture
that is dominant today--
the selfie culture.
It's literally called the
selfie culture, right?
>> MUTER: Yes.
>> REGINA: With everybody
putting their super little
sizzle reel of themselves
out on whatever platform
they're working with.
And the addiction to physicality
in terms of appearance
is very--
to me, I find it
very depressing when
I see people
posting all of this,
and their cute little
faces they make
and pouty lips and all this.
It just-- I find the
whole thing so depressing.
>> MUTER: Yes.
And a lot of that stems from the
removal of parenting a child.
>> REGINA: Let's just dive in.
We were going to talk
about this later.
>> MUTER: We might as well.
>> REGINA: Let's just get
into it because you're right,
and people don't
want to hear that.
>> MUTER: No, they don't.
And it's doing our children
and ourselves a disservice
when we try to
befriend our children
while we're raising them.
That's not the role of that.
When we have our children
as our therapists,
when we're putting our--
we have our career, and we
come home and our career
remains more important
than the family.
And it doesn't matter what
your family is made of
and how it looks, but the family
is essential and important.
Now, when we divide
this, what we're doing
is the children
that are growing up
are needing specific parameters.
They're needing
specific attention.
And they're needing
specific discipline.
And all of that is a
symbolization of love.
Love is discipline in a sense.
And love is giving parameters.
And love is loving
unconditionally to your child.
When the child feels that
they're lacking in that,
what are we're going to do?
We're going to start behaving in
ways that draw attention to us.
And so we just kind of look
over the last few decades
that more and more attention
are being brought to the self,
to us--
>> REGINA: Yes.
>> MUTER: --through the selfies,
through taking pictures,
through doing shocking things.
Shocking things to our body,
behaving in shocking ways,
because that's how we're
garnering attention.
And that's where we're
putting our self-worth.
Where our self-worth
isn't in the mirror.
The self-worth isn't
behind the camera.
>> REGINA: But you
knew this at seven.
>> MUTER: The self-worth--
>> REGINA: You could
see the dynamic.
>> MUTER: --is who you are.
>> REGINA: Yes, it's
who you really are.
Not the reflection
in the mirror you
have to keep capturing
to see if you're real.
>> MUTER: That is false.
Yes.
>> REGINA: Yes.
>> MUTER: Because that's false.
>> REGINA: And it's interesting
because the way this is being
reflected in pop culture
terms, the whole thing about
parenting, is in films--
when I was a little kid,
they had shows where
they were very patriarchal.
The woman was washing
dishes with their pearls on.
The family was stable.
And you had a wise father and
usually a wise mother, though
never quite as smart and wise.
But now, it's gone the other
end of the pendulum, where
the parents are the idiots.
They're superfluous to
any deep conversation.
They're seen as dysfunctional.
The kids are the smart ones.
They're the parents' therapists.
Over and over you're seeing
the same story being propagated
that the kids are the wise,
savvy, smart, responsible ones,
and their parents are
morons, essentially.
>> MUTER: Yeah.
And what a shame,
disservice that we're
doing for our children, because
the children need guidance.
And they're not to
parent the parents,
but that's literally
what they're doing
is they're parenting
the parents.
>> REGINA: They're
parenting the parents.
And so there's some truth in
these portrayals in the media,
in entertainment right
now, which, I mean,
I find it kind of
offensive on one hand,
if you're a parent
that is doing your job.
But these shows are made
mostly for adults not for kids.
But the kids are the wise ones.
So what you're saying is we need
to look at that because there
is some truth that the parents
aren't showing up and doing
their jobs.
And they're afraid
of their kids.
They don't want to
take their devices away
because they're afraid the
kid's going to be mad at them
and not like them.
And then they have to go on
antidepressants and on and on--
the barrage.
So how do you see it?
If we could take it back to
something truly functional,
starting at home, because that's
where it's all going to happen.
>> MUTER: It always
starts at home.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
>> MUTER: Because that is--
when people talk about we
want a solid foundation
in our life, first of all,
there is no such thing
as a solid foundation.
Foundations always move.
We look just at the tectonic
plates of the Earth,
if we're going to get physical
here, those are always moving.
So we're never going to
have a solid foundation.
The one solid
foundation you have
is you, that common denominator.
That's the only place
that solid foundation is.
Your body is not even
a solid foundation.
Your body is changing,
and growing up, and aging,
and having all of these things.
So it's really your soul.
That's your foundation.
When we look at the
family, the family
is also then going to
be the closest thing
that we can get to a foundation
in the fundamental years
of childhood.
And when a child can come home--
they might have had a really
hard day at school--
they can come home and
they can speak openly
with their parents.
Their parents can listen.
But the parents aren't
going to sit there and try
to be the child's friend.
The parent needs to provide
a safe, loving structure
and environment for that
child to come and process
what it is experiencing
outside in the real world.
Now, there's bullies.
We're never going to
get rid of bullies.
But what we can do when we have
this home environment, whatever
that looks like, is it allows
a child to process this
and to understand this is how
I'm going to react and respond
to the bullies that I am
encountering out there.
And it gives the child
empowerment and strength
to live their life.
When we don't have that,
we remove that empowerment,
we remove that strength.
And it's not running around
and being, I'm empowered,
I'm empowered, and being a brat.
It's subtle.
It's calm.
It's peaceful.
That's what we talk
about when we have
this strength within ourselves.
Quickly before we
move on from this--
when we look at a
child coming home
and they just want to drop their
stuff off and go off and be
by themselves, that's a totally
normal and natural thing
for a child to do.
But when we have devices that
we can default to-- so now
we're coming in the home.
We have-- we're going to ignore
everybody there because we've
had whatever day we've had.
And then we go in and
get on our device.
Well, the devices are
the modern day drug.
>> REGINA: They are.
>> MUTER: And so
what it's doing--
>> REGINA: On a neurochemical
level, they're a drug.
>> MUTER: Yeah.
It's acting as a drug to
mute out everything else.
So the brain actually isn't
even processing the events
that took place that day.
And so then they're doing
all of this on their devices
and not able to process.
But then they go out
into the real world,
and then there's things that
we can never control out there
from a bully or someone
we meet that's very kind.
But we don't know how to handle
those situations because now
we're watching
television shows, we're
watching whatever the media is
putting out there on how people
are handling this.
So they can come out and be
a rude and obnoxious person
or they can succumb
to the pressure.
>> REGINA: Right.
>> MUTER: And that is
abusing themselves.
So literally when we hand
those devices to the kids,
we're teaching them
to abuse themselves.
>> REGINA: I agree with that.
I've talked with many
people on this show
from various angles regarding
devices and the brain
because I'm very concerned
about the generation that's
been raised on the devices,
and especially with really
easy and open access.
Because this is a drug.
It is wiring the brain
in very specific ways.
And as you said, it's
deflecting any need
to actually have to
mature and integrate
all of these challenges in
life on an emotional level.
>> MUTER: Correct.
>> REGINA: Well, everybody
can see that one.
>> MUTER: [LAUGHS] Yes.
>> REGINA: I think that
we're pretty clear on that.
And the whole point
comes down to the self--
what would you call it?
Not self-centeredness.
The self-consciousness
of the parent
maybe in wanting to be liked.
>> MUTER: Yeah.
But we have to
look generationally
because it's a progression.
And so the parent
that is needing
to be liked by
their child was also
trying to search for
acceptance themselves.
>> REGINA: Right.
>> MUTER: And so they're
looking for acceptance.
And I've got news
for you, your child
is going to accept
you and love you
for who you are because
you are their parent.
They don't care what your
body shape looks like.
They don't care if you're going
to yoga or going to the gym.
They just care that you are you.
And that just innocent
love is so special.
And we each carry
it within ourselves.
And if we remind
ourselves that we
carry this innocence within
us and this vulnerability
within us, it
doesn't make us weak.
It makes us remember who we
are at the fundamental level.
And that is something that's
stunning and beautiful.
>> REGINA: It really is.
And your letters, from
when you were a child,
have that innocence of your
reflection of your parents
and wanting to have tea with
them, or cookies with them,
and love them and be with them.
And it shows how kids--
it's a reminder of how we as
kids felt about our parents.
>> MUTER: Exactly.
>> REGINA: And we
did, we wanted their--
yes, I think every child
wants some approval.
>> MUTER: Yeah.
>> REGINA: Of course.
I mean, to feel like
you count and you matter
and your contributions matter.
>> MUTER: Exactly.
>> REGINA: And right now
it's just one big cloud.
>> MUTER: Yeah.
We're kind of running
around like chickens--
>> REGINA: Yeah.
>> MUTER: --without a head.
[LAUGHS]
>> REGINA: Yeah, we are.
So OK, that's one letter
to the "Flower Lady"
is about the
self-consciousness and mirrors.
And we could actually
talk about that-- there
are a lot of nuances in
there-- for a long time.
>> MUTER: Exactly.
>> REGINA: But let's move on
to the one that's about living
both sides of choices--
[LAUGHTER]
--which is again,
this just amazes me--
it's a little child, a little
girl writing these things.
>> MUTER: Yeah.
And so really if we
look at that letter,
it's talking about
quantum superposition.
>> REGINA: Yes.
>> MUTER: It's talking about
how a single particle can be
in multiple places
simultaneously at the exact
same time.
One particle.
So that particle
isn't branching off
like the division of the cell.
The particle is itself.
And it can be in multiple
places at the same time.
So in that letter that I wrote,
I wanted the "Flower Lady"
to tell me hi.
So it was my birthday
and I got to pick
between grasshopper
pie and a yellow cake
with chocolate frosting.
And I-- me writing the
version, writing the letter
was the grasshopper pie.
But I was like, I also picked
the yellow cake, I know I did.
And that was a total
different branch--
>> REGINA: You mean-- when
you say you know you did,
is that more like in
a Mandela effect way,
or you wanted both and you
in your heart chose both?
>> MUTER: In a
Mandela effect way.
>> REGINA: OK.
>> MUTER: I knew
that I branched.
I knew that I was observing at
that moment two different life
trajectories.
And it wasn't imaginary.
It wasn't that I had
a split in my brain
and I had two different
personalities.
It was literally
that in my brain,
it was observing-- so we go
back to this word "observation."
It was observing both of the
outcomes of this choice, which,
at that time--
which there is another follow-up
letter behind that one--
that says my life is potential.
My life hasn't even begun
yet, even though I'm
living it out right now.
All of this is
potential, which then
starts talking about the
principle of least action.
And so in these
letters, I'm talking
about these things
through child's language
that I am living out the
principle of least action,
meaning I'm living out
every single possibility.
And the reason I can
do this is because
of quantum superposition.
And when we talk
quantum theory--
I say this often--
quantum theory is what it is.
It's a theory.
But it's the very
tip of an iceberg.
And so whether we mathematically
try to solve these equations
or we take it into the lab
and we try to prove them,
the mathematical version
and the taking it into lab
are both observations,
meaning that there's
so much more that we don't see.
The tip of the iceberg
is that observation.
And under that surface is
what's really happening.
>> REGINA: Yes.
And this gets into a really
interesting topic to me
and that is when it has
been put to the test.
We think we're
making that decision.
We think we're making it.
But in fact, when they've
done scans of the brain,
they're watching
the brain line up--
the decision has
already been made
before we even have
conscious awareness of what
our choice is.
So now let's talk about
that from a quantum view.
So you've put the
question out, right?
Somehow there's a
question or desire.
>> MUTER: Correct.
>> REGINA: Right?
And now all aspects of
mind, being, possibility
have come into play,
and it trickles down,
and boom, you think you
chose the yellow cake, right?
>> MUTER: Correct.
OK, so we're going to step
way back here really quick
and we're going to
look at observation
because our life and observation
in our life is paramount.
Our overarching consciousness
doesn't reside in this body.
So if we look at this body
as an observational tool
for our overarching
consciousness--
we're going to put that
over here for a second.
Now, at conception, when
the sperm hit the egg,
what happened?
You can't have
conception without death.
Meaning at the instant that
that happened, we died.
[LAUGHS] OK?
Now--
>> REGINA: And you wrote about
this when you were little too.
>> MUTER: I did
write about this--
>> REGINA: Yeah.
>> MUTER: --when I
was little as well.
When we look at
decision making, when
we look at the idea
of having free will,
because at conception
we died, that
means that everything in between
that conception and that death
has already happened.
Now, we take in the
principle of least action,
which means that we
are based-- and this
is such an abridged version,
so we're taking this
with a grain of salt.
>> REGINA: That's OK.
Just make it really visceral
and easy to understand.
>> MUTER: Which means that
our observation of our life
experience, how this body, this
combination of sperm and egg
reacts and responds
to every stimulus,
to every decision or
environmental going
on, and then in the end, it
says this is the path that
we're going to take.
But it has to observe every
single one of these options.
So your brain has
already processed that.
So it feels like we
are making a decision.
It feels like it hit
us right in the head
and we are having yellow cake.
The reason why we do
that is because our brain
is absolutely amazing.
The brain doesn't
just create the veil
between the earthbound
plane and the ethereal.
The brain creates a veil between
each one of these trajectories
because it's important for
it, for our consciousness,
to observe each reaction and
response to these stimulus
isolated in order to have a
correct understanding of what's
happening.
So I can't have the grasshopper
pie and the yellow cake
at the exact same time
on the same trajectory
because it would become clouded,
because those decisions are
going to branch off and create
new decisions or new situations
that I'm going to encounter.
So the power of observation,
what is our point and purpose
here in life--
and I know it doesn't
sound very sexy,
but our important purpose
here is observation
of how we react and
respond to these situations
in our lifetime.
>> REGINA: That is
a huge part of it.
And oftentimes, we're
walking right past ourselves.
We're not observing.
>> MUTER: Oh, yeah.
>> REGINA: We're not
taking the time to observe.
And there we're
living on autopilot.
And that's where free will--
>> MUTER: We're
focusing on the mirror.
>> REGINA: --becomes
deeply impacted.
We're focusing on the mirror.
That was very beautifully put.
I mean, free will
is just a subject
I'm passionate
about in all ways.
And I love your piece of this.
>> MUTER: It's--
>> REGINA: Because
Manjir Samanta-Laughton,
who is in England--
I've interviewed her before.
Manjir looks at it as
time and reverse time.
And that-- you
have one of those?
[LAUGHS]
>> MUTER: May I
read this letter?
>> REGINA: Yes.
And that it is all
already occurred,
but yet it's still all
fields of potential--
>> MUTER: Yeah.
>> REGINA: --collapsing.
>> MUTER: Correct.
Now, we become kinetic when
this life experience is done.
>> REGINA: Yes.
>> MUTER: And I equate it to
we are building a music note.
This life is a music note
and our consciousness
is a symphony.
And this music note is
one part of that symphony.
But it is just potential--
>> REGINA: Right.
>> MUTER: --until it is done,
until this physical body is all
done.
>> REGINA: Until it is written.
>> MUTER: That's done.
>> REGINA: So what
has been written here?
>> MUTER: So we're going to
look at time really quickly.
>> REGINA: I love it.
[LAUGHS]
>> MUTER: It says,
"Dear Flower Lady,
this is a quick note on time.
Not on time time,
but about time.
When we look down time,
it can seem very long."
So when we are looking
forward, it can seem very long.
"But when we look backward,
time isn't even there
because it doesn't exist.
It doesn't matter when
something happened,
just that it happened.
But it doesn't even
matter that it happened.
It just colored us.
And when we look forward
in the forward time,
we get to use these colors
to paint our future."
So it's talking about how we're
going to react and respond
and how we're going to
use our prior experiences
in the future, but it also shows
that really truly time doesn't
exist.
We can't turn around
and go backwards.
We can't change anything.
We can't do any of that.
We can look down this way.
But what time actually
is is a measurement tool.
It's not its own dimension.
It's actually a
tool of measurement.
And that's a whole other topic.
>> REGINA: It is.
>> MUTER: But it's
absolutely fascinating.
>> REGINA: It is fascinating.
I want to go back to one
thing and then get into time.
So when we're
talking about living
both sides of our
choices, and we already
talked about that a bit,
how valuable, or is it
valuable, for us to go
back and take a moment
to reflect what we feel a
trajectory would have been
had we made the opposite choice?
Is it worth it to
even bother to try
to analyze, to engage
mentally in that process,
or just let it be?
>> MUTER: We need to let it be.
When we look back,
we're always going
to have 20/20 vision
no matter what it is.
I should have done that.
I could have done that.
I could have said that.
I could have made a decision.
But what is that actually doing?
That's being cruel to yourself.
Saying I'm such an idiot,
I should have done that,
and look where I am now.
We need to accept where we are
in our life, no matter what
and no matter how we
got there, because it
is part of who you are.
>> REGINA: Everything is an
opportunity for learning--
>> MUTER: Everything.
>> REGINA: --for
experience, for growth.
Everything.
>> MUTER: Everything.
>> REGINA: Every bad decision.
>> MUTER: And because you made
a bad decision doesn't mean
you're a bad person.
>> REGINA: Right.
>> MUTER: Because you
made a bad decision--
you have to remember that
when you made that decision,
you made that decision
with the best knowledge
and understanding and the
situation that you were
in at that time.
You didn't have the information
that you are going to have
further down yet.
So don't beat
yourself up too hard
because you did the best
you could with what you had.
>> REGINA: And as--
I mean, if you
reduce it to this,
Buckminster Fuller said, this
is all just one big experiment.
>> MUTER: It's all one--
>> REGINA: This life
is an experiment,
and next life will be an
experiment, and on and on.
>> MUTER: That's
why observation--
this is an observational
experiment.
And even though it
doesn't sound great,
I mean, like, warm and
loving, it actually is.
It is the epitome of compassion.
It is the epitome of humility.
It is the epitome of something
so much greater than love.
This observation of
this life experience
is creating that enveloping
light or that enveloping
darkness that people experience
on the other side of the veil,
and they come back after
a near-death experience
or out-of-body experience,
and they well up
and they can't describe
what they felt.
But they knew they went home
and they want to go back.
And it's this love.
>> REGINA: Universally, that
seems to be the experience.
>> MUTER: It is created by
the observation of this life
experience, of your
life experience,
of everyone's life experience.
That's contributing
to what you're feeling
on the other side of the veil.
That's how magnificent--
>> REGINA: Our lives are.
>> MUTER: --our lives are.
>> REGINA: Truly are.
OK, now I'm going
to ask you something
that I wasn't planning on.
>> MUTER: OK.
>> REGINA: But let's do it.
So now, if we look at our
lives with that kind of grace
and say, in one sense, all
potentials have already been
laid out from the moment I
was conceived-- potentials--
I still had a choice
as to what potential,
but there were factors that
were going to probably lead me
to that.
But that's OK.
I made that choice.
And now that choice
seems to have burned me.
And now what happens
is you have all
of the emotions that
start pouring in that we
need to start reconciling with.
And people who tend to go back
over their lives over and over
and live in the past is a
very tortured place to be.
>> MUTER: Oh, absolutely.
>> REGINA: And we all know that
when we've gotten stuck in mind
loops ourselves.
So now we're talking about
the enfolding, management,
amelioration-- whatever
you want to call it--
of the emotions that
flood in after we feel
we've made a mistake.
Like you say in your
book, skinned our knees.
>> MUTER: Yeah.
[LAUGHTER]
That's right.
When we have these
emotions, there's
primary and secondary emotions.
And not a lot of
people talk about this.
But let's look at anger
and frustration and hate.
And these are going to be what I
would call a secondary emotion.
I'm not discounting them.
But what they are, they
are protective measures--
>> REGINA: Yes.
>> MUTER: --to protect that
innocence and vulnerability
that we were speaking
about earlier.
So those are protective.
So when you are angry,
when you are frustrated,
the best thing to do is
to sit back and say, what
is it that I am angry about?
So at first, it's going
to be because so-and-so
did this, and blah, blah, blah,
or I made this stupid mistake.
But let's sit back
and say, OK, well,
why did that make
you feel this way?
And then we can come into
our primary emotions.
And our primary emotions really
are the love and compassion
and the ability to have
humility in our life.
Understanding that
mistakes happen
and understanding that we
are going to make mistakes.
And it's a compassion
towards ourselves.
It's a compassion towards
that inner innocence
that we really
truly are children.
No matter how old we are, we
are such a beautiful child
that is learning
and doing the very
best they can to get
through this life that
can be quite confusing.
>> REGINA: It can be quite
confusing because everyone else
has their own individual play
playing out simultaneously
and our fields intersect
with each other.
And those plays may be
at different stages--
>> MUTER: Exactly.
>> REGINA: --at a given time.
Even in relationships,
you meet people
that you just like instantly,
but their play and your play
may not be lining up on that
perceived timeline scale,
for example.
And then you sit
and say, darn it,
and missed opport-- no, maybe
it's not a missed opportunity.
If your timelines
aren't lining up,
it wasn't an opportunity
to begin with.
>> MUTER: Correct.
Correct.
And if we just accept it for
what it is, which is that--
and so maybe you met
that person and just that
was a great meeting.
I really liked that person.
And then you just move on.
But don't beat yourself up.
I mean, really truly--
>> REGINA: So having
compassion for our experience
in the moment, whatever
decisions we make,
is so filled with grace.
So we talked earlier,
we alluded to it
briefly-- shaky foundations.
So part of the
reason people feel
this angst and
everything is they
don't know what's coming next.
And as you said, even the
tectonic plates of the Earth
are shifting.
So let's talk about connecting
with that pure essence
at the core of ourselves.
For you, as someone
who is able to see
and function and interact
very clearly with your core--
and it doesn't mean you
don't make mistakes,
and have boo-boos, and fall
down, and, well, break things--
[LAUGHTER]
--like everybody else.
But let's talk about it from
that very fine elevated point
of view, how we
are able to tap in
without a near-death experience.
>> MUTER: You want to know
how to tap in to that--
>> REGINA: Divine, everything
is perfect aspect of each one
of us, because the world
around does move, it is shaky,
and it can be scary, and
we can make bad decisions.
>> MUTER: All right.
So in order for us to connect to
that overarching consciousness
to our divine being
of who we are,
we need to learn silence
within ourselves.
Now, that's easier
said than done
because our brain
has natural chatter.
And we are going
to make mistakes,
and we are going to
fall down, and we're
going to break our
legs, or whatever
it is that's going to
happen is going to happen.
But when we can come into this
silence, come into this place--
and I call it my
chocolate place.
[LAUGHS]
>> REGINA: Yes, because
you're the chocolate lady.
>> MUTER: But it would be
like chanting a mantra.
The words don't mean anything.
So it would be like
stepping into the hum.
Start humming to
yourself or whatever
it is to create vibration
within your body.
And for me, chocolate does that.
Or just the idea of
chocolate does that.
It's very soothing.
And when we can come
into that space,
then no matter what
happens around us, what's
going to happen is
through that peace,
through that
silence, through that
stillness, that
touch of our soul
is going to radiate and
shine right through us.
It's going to come in and you're
going to be able to feel it.
>> REGINA: So you need to be
able to touch with the thing
that brings you not
happiness but joy.
>> MUTER: Yeah.
>> REGINA: A subtle
sense of joy.
>> MUTER: Yeah, a
subtle sense of joy.
And I actually describe
it as a resonance.
So a lot of people
think I'm going
to raise my vibrational
level so I can get here,
I'm going to do this.
But what you're actually
looking for is harmony.
Because on the other side of
the veil, that is what it is.
It is harmony.
That's why I often refer
to it as a symphony
and we're the music note,
because it's harmonic.
And there's a melody up there
that is your specific melody.
And when we can
find resonance-- so
something that
resonates within you
that brings you that beautiful,
vibrational note of silence,
that is what is going to allow
this melody to come straight
down and say you are OK.
>> REGINA: So if everybody takes
a moment right now and just
thinks about it,
where is their true--
I don't mean going out and
having shots with the girls
and dancing, but the true
quiet, joyful, subtle place
inside that makes your
heart feel lifted.
That's what we're
each looking for.
>> MUTER: Yeah.
And if they want to try an
experiment-- so if people
are watching at home-- you want
to try and experiment and just
see how this works.
Pick two words, any
two words you want.
And all I want you
to do is repeat
these two words to yourself.
And this is going to feel like
forever, but there's no time.
Don't worry about it.
[LAUGHTER]
>> REGINA: Unless you
have to pick the kids up.
>> MUTER: Yeah.
Repeat these two words for
10 to 15 minutes non-stop.
The words are just going to
end up becoming vibration.
>> REGINA: It'll
be like a soup--
a vibrational soup.
>> MUTER: It is.
But what's going to
happen is all of a sudden,
you're going to feel sometimes
this "pop rocks" sensation
that you don't even know
you have within your body
settle down and calm down.
And you're going
to be like, wow,
life is actually very quiet.
So if you want to
try that to find
this stillness or this quiet,
repeat two words over and over
and over and over again.
And soon you won't have to
repeat the two words constantly
in order to get this space
because you'll recognize
the feeling and
you'll be able to call
upon this feeling at any time.
>> REGINA: So it's just
identifying the feeling,
if you haven't already
through meditation practice
or whatever, just find it.
But the quality of the
words that are bringing you
a soothing, joyful feeling.
>> MUTER: Yeah.
I mean, it could be--
>> REGINA: Chocolate.
>> MUTER: Right.
Chocolate.
It could be actually any words.
It could be frog mug,
frog mug, frog mug.
[LAUGHTER]
>> REGINA: But whatever
makes you happy.
That would make my sister happy.
She loves frogs.
[LAUGHTER]
Very good.
Thank you.
So that's very simple.
Choose two words that you love
and just say them over and over
and over--
>> MUTER: Yeah, and they don't
have to have any meaning.
>> REGINA: --for
about 10 minutes.
No meaning.
Just you love them.
They feel good.
>> MUTER: Exactly.
>> REGINA: You say them.
Turns into a soup, a hum.
And you felt that hum from
the time you were born.
>> MUTER: Basically,
from the time I was born.
>> REGINA: From the
time you were born,
you were aware of the hum,
the note of your life.
>> MUTER: Yes.
Yeah, I hear the melody often.
>> REGINA: So with you and life
going on-- and you have life
like everybody else.
You have your ups,
and your downs,
and your stumbles
and skinned knees.
Is this something that
you just consciously
can shift into in a
moment now because you've
lived there your whole life?
You've known the
hum your whole life,
so you just go back to the hum.
>> MUTER: Yep, I just
go back to the hum.
I don't actually ever
feel myself shift.
I don't have to remind myself.
It just is.
>> REGINA: You don't get too
far from the hum really, do you?
>> MUTER: No.
If I get too far
from the hum, if I
get too far from
the melody, I think
I would collapse because it is
the essence of why I am alive
here.
It is the essence of
why I make chocolate.
It is the essence of why I
go about everything that I
go about and my connection
with the world around me.
If I didn't have
that connection,
I think I would feel
completely lost.
>> REGINA: I think so, too.
And most people do
feel completely lost.
>> MUTER: Yeah.
>> REGINA: So on that note,
as we finish our conversation,
I want to talk about
your fireside chats.
But I want to talk a
little bit about chocolate.
We have all these ideas
we've imposed upon ourselves
about what we should
do and shouldn't do,
which only takes us a further
away from the hum usually.
But it's like you said to me
this morning, Regina, go ahead,
have chocolate-covered
orange slices for breakfast.
[LAUGHTER]
Do it.
And I'm like, yes, that's
not what I normally do,
but it's what I'd want to do.
But if you're in the hum, how
does that change everything?
>> MUTER: It's like eating the
chocolate-covered orange slice
all day long.
There are times and
moments in our life
that are absolutely devastating.
And I know we didn't get the
chance to talk about some
of these things.
But when we have situations
that we think we cannot survive,
being able to call upon or find
this melody or find this hum
allows all of the emotion,
allows all of the pain,
allows all of the joy to rush
through your body at a cellular
level.
And we have to remember
that we're not solid,
so it's literally
flowing right through us.
And we could feel all of it.
But there is-- and I don't want
to use the word appreciation--
but it is, I would say
humility, where you understand
that there is something so
much more powerful out there
and that what you're
feeling now is
a testament to the
depth of love that is
on the other side of the veil.
And that hum or that melody
that flows through you
is saying you're not alone.
It is saying you are loved.
And you can get through this.
It's like someone coming
and as you're on your knees,
wrapping their arms around you
and holding you and saying,
I'm right here.
And that I'm right here is you.
>> REGINA: Right.
>> MUTER: That is you holding
that innocent piece that is
feeling injured.
>> REGINA: And that's
so important right now
because suicide rates
have skyrocketed.
And we were going
to talk about it,
but I would like to come back--
have you come back another
time and go into suicide
from a much more
elevated level of looking
at what happens when all
possibilities are there
and things start
playing out in this way.
>> MUTER: Yes.
And I think suicide is a very
important topic to talk about.
Not many people have studied
what actually suicide is.
But suicide isn't a choice.
People that are
committing suicide
have no choice, just as you have
no choice that you have cancer,
you have no choice if
you have heart disease,
you're getting hit by a car.
Suicide is the exact same thing.
It's a very natural act.
And it begins with unicellular
organisms commit suicide.
At the cellular level,
cells commit suicide.
And animals and plants both
have what is a suicide gene.
Our body is an animal.
And I think that
if we have a chance
to come back and
talk about that,
we open up with what
is suicide and what
does it look like in the
brain as the brain inflames
and the people have no choice.
And then when we hear
mediums or someone say,
your person that you loved
that committed suicide,
they didn't mean it.
Well, they didn't.
They had no control over it.
They didn't want
to commit suicide.
And the other thing is, before
we continue, is they are OK,
and they're safe,
and they're loved.
And they're not in trouble.
They're not in time-out.
They're not having
to learn a lesson.
It's a very natural
thing that they
had to go through that was very,
very painful here on Earth.
But they're out of pain now.
>> REGINA: Thank you for that.
And that's just an opener
and a tease toward a larger
conversation next
time I have you on.
But Maren, thank you so much
for everything you've shared.
And just very briefly,
you have fireside chats,
I learned, where hundreds
of people show up.
Like at a real fireside?
What are these?
>> MUTER: They started
out as a real fireside.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
>> MUTER: And then when COVID
hit, they moved to online.
And I've just started
opening them up to Zoom.
And so I have monthly
fireside chats.
What I do is I
pool the questions
that I get most
often for a month
and then I'll answer those
questions during that fireside.
But there's no
question off the table.
And there's nothing
that we can't discuss.
And so once a month, we
get people coming in.
And I have two sessions, two
firesides, one in the morning,
one in the evening,
that way if you're
in another part of the
world, you can join in.
>> REGINA: I love it.
Good.
How do they find you?
>> MUTER: Marenmuter.com.
>> REGINA: All right.
Well, very good.
Thank you so much
for letting me know
that that's even happening.
I've got to join in and see what
some of these questions are.
[LAUGHTER]
I thank you again, Maren.
Just absolutely delightful
and joyous having you here.
>> MUTER: Thank you, Regina.
>> REGINA: There's no
writing like Maren's.
Her new book is called
"Your Quantum Brain."
Nothing like it.
It uses baking as a metaphor
for our quantum reality,
so, of course, I love it.
Stunning, delicate writing.
Until next time, thank
you for joining us here
on "Open Minds."
[THEME MUSIC]